# pandas.Index.reindex

> 原文：[`pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.Index.reindex.html`](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.Index.reindex.html)

```py
Index.reindex(target, method=None, level=None, limit=None, tolerance=None)
```

Create index with target’s values.

Parameters:

**target**an iterable

**method**{None, ‘pad’/’ffill’, ‘backfill’/’bfill’, ‘nearest’}, optional

+   default: exact matches only.

+   pad / ffill: find the PREVIOUS index value if no exact match.

+   backfill / bfill: use NEXT index value if no exact match

+   nearest: use the NEAREST index value if no exact match. Tied distances are broken by preferring the larger index value.

**level**int, optional

Level of multiindex.

**limit**int, optional

Maximum number of consecutive labels in `target` to match for inexact matches.

**tolerance**int or float, optional

Maximum distance between original and new labels for inexact matches. The values of the index at the matching locations must satisfy the equation `abs(index[indexer] - target) <= tolerance`.

Tolerance may be a scalar value, which applies the same tolerance to all values, or list-like, which applies variable tolerance per element. List-like includes list, tuple, array, Series, and must be the same size as the index and its dtype must exactly match the index’s type.

Returns:

**new_index**pd.Index

Resulting index.

**indexer**np.ndarray[np.intp] or None

Indices of output values in original index.

Raises:

TypeError

If `method` passed along with `level`.

ValueError

If non-unique multi-index

ValueError

If non-unique index and `method` or `limit` passed.

See also

`Series.reindex`

Conform Series to new index with optional filling logic.

`DataFrame.reindex`

Conform DataFrame to new index with optional filling logic.

Examples

```py
>>> idx = pd.Index(['car', 'bike', 'train', 'tractor'])
>>> idx
Index(['car', 'bike', 'train', 'tractor'], dtype='object')
>>> idx.reindex(['car', 'bike'])
(Index(['car', 'bike'], dtype='object'), array([0, 1])) 
```
